Register your product and get support at
www.philips.com/welcome Hairdryer
HP4984
HP4983
HP4982
HP4981
HP4980
EN User manual
77
abcdef
g
hi
k
j
l
English
Congratulations on your purchase, and welcome to Philips! To fully
benefit from the support that Philips offers, register your product at
www.philips.com/welcome.
1 Important
Read this user manual carefully before you use the appliance and keep it
for future reference.
• WARNING: Do not use this appliance near water.
• When the appliance is used in a bathroom, unplug it after use since
the proximity of water presents a risk, even when the appliance is
switched off.
• WARNING: Do not use this appliance near bathtubs,
showers, basins or other vessels containing water.
• Do not insert metal objects into the air grilles to avoid
electric shock.
• Never block the air grilles.
• Before you connect the appliance, ensure that the voltage indicated
on the appliance corresponds to the local power voltage.
• Do not use the appliance for any other purpose than described in
this manual.
• Do not use the appliance on artificial hair.
• When the appliance is connected to the power, never leave it
unattended.
• Always unplug the appliance after use.
• Never use any accessories or parts from other manufacturers or that
Philips does not specifically recommend. If you use such accessories
or parts, your guarantee becomes invalid.
• Do not wind the mains cord round the appliance.
• If the mains cord is damaged, you must have it replaced by Philips, a
service centre authorised by Philips or similarly qualified persons in
order to avoid a hazard.
• This appliance is not intended for use by persons (including children)
with reduced physical, sensory or mental capabilities, or lack of
experience and knowledge, unless they have been given supervision
or instruction concerning use of the appliance by a person
responsible for their safety.
• Children should be supervised to ensure that they do not play with
the appliance.
• For additional protection, we advise you to install a residual current
device (RCD) in the electrical circuit that supplies the bathroom. This
RCD must have a rated residual operating current not higher than
30mA. Ask your installer for advice.
• If the appliance overheats, it switches off automatically. Unplug the
appliance and let it cool down for a few minutes. Before you switch
the appliance on again, check the grilles to make sure they are not
blocked by fluff, hair, etc.
Electromagnetic fields (EMF)
This appliance complies with all standards regarding electromagnetic
fields (EMF). If handled properly and according to the instructions in this
user manual, the appliance is safe to use based on scientific evidence
available today.
Environment
Do not throw away the appliance with the normal household
waste at the end of its life, but hand it in at an official collection
point for recycling. By doing this, you help to preserve the
environment.
2 Dry your hair
1 Connect the plug to a power supply socket.
• For precise drying, attach the concentrator ( ) onto the
hairdryer ( ).
• HP4981/83 only: To enhance volume for curls and bouncy style,
attach the diffuser ( ) onto the hairdryer ( ).
• HP4984 only: To lift, straighten and smooth curly Afro hair, attach the
styling comb ( ) onto the hairdryer ( ).
• To disconnect the attachment, pull it off the hairdryer.
2 Adjust the airflow switch ( ) to for gentle airflow and styling, or
 for strong airflow and fast drying. Press the Turbo button ( ) for
extra airflow.
3 Adjust the temperature switch ( ) to for hot airflow, for warm
airflow, or for cool airflow. Press the cool shot button ( ) for
cool airflow to fix your style.
• HP4982/83 only: To turn the ion function on or off, adjust the ion
slide switch to or ( ). The function provides additional shine
and reduces frizz. It is particularly suitable for dry and almost-dry hair.
» If the function is on, the ion indicator ( ) lights up.
» When the function is on, a special odor may be smelt. It is normal
and caused by the ions which are generated.
• For HP4981/83 with the diffuser:
To add volume at the root, inser the pins into your hair and make
rotating movements.
For long hair, spread out sections of hair on top of the diffuser or
comb the hair downwards with the pins.
To fix the style for curly or wavy hair, hold the diffuser at a distance
of 10-15cm to let it dry gradually.
• For HP4984 with the styling comb: Insert the pins into your hair,
and direct the airflow from the root to the end.
After use:
1 Switch off the appliance and unplug it.
2 Place it on a heat-resistant surface until it cools down.
3 Take the air inlet grille ( ) off the appliance to remove hair and dust.
4 Clean the appliance by damp cloth.
5 Keep it in a safe and dry place, free of dust. You can also hang it with
the hanging loop ( ).
3 Guarantee and service
If you need information or if you have a problem, please visit the Philips
website at www.philips.com or contact the Philips Customer Care
Centre in your country (you find its phone number in the worldwide
guarantee leaflet). If there is no Consumer Care Centre in your country,
go to your local Philips dealer.
© Royal Philips Electronics N.V. 2009
All rights reserved.
Specifications are subject to change without notice.
Trademarks are the property of Koninklijke Philips
Electronics N.V. or their respective owners.
PDCC-2009
3140 035 20141