Instruction Manual
Model # is located by barcode.
Please write your model # on your sales receipt or below.
Model Number:
www.waterpik.com/shower-register
FN 20022556-F AE
ENGLISH
Thank you for purchasing this Waterpik® shower head. This booklet
provides instruction to make installation quick and easy. You are close
to enjoying a powerful and invigorating shower experience with your
new Waterpik® shower head.
You can view more information about Waterpik® shower head
products at www.waterpik.com. To learn more about Waterpik®
water for wellness® benefits go to www.waterpikwellness.com.
Note: Pictures shown may not directly match your shower head.
PRIOR TO INSTALLATION
• Remove old shower head and remove all pipe tape.
• Ensure that the washer from the old shower is not connected to the
pipe. Use a thin utensil to check inside the pipe for washers, such
as a pencil or screw driver. Do not use your fingers.
• Gather the tools necessary to install your new shower head.
OR
Adjustable Wrench or Pliers (not included)
Soft Cloth (not included)
Pipe tape is not recommended.
INSTALLATION
Fixed Mount
Shower Head
Large Nut
Washer
Shower pipe Filter Screen
Pivot Ball
Shower head
1 1. Slide the large nut over the shower
pipe so that it rests on horizontal
part of the pipe and is clear of the
threaded end.
2 2. Hand thread the pivot ball onto the
pipe.
3 3. With an adjustable wrench or pliers,
tighten pivot ball an additional ¼ to
½ turn. Wrap pivot ball with a cloth
if you are using pliers.
4 4. Thread the large nut
to the shower head,
holding shower head in
position. The large nut
tightens when turned
clockwise as viewed
from the front of the
shower head.
OPERATION
Spray Selector:
Spray Selector allows you to select from
various spray patterns. Spray pattern is
controlled by the small lever that rotates left
and right.
WARNING:
1 To avoid hot water dangers and conserve even more energy, make
sure your water heater is set at 120°F (48.9°C) or below.
2 Test the tub/shower water with your hand before bathing.
3 For additional safety for Ecoflow® or high efficiency showerheads,
it is recommended that all homes have installed a pressure balance
tub and shower valve with the rotational limit stops properly set by
a plumber.
4 For external use only. The potentially deadly amoeba, Naegleria
fowleri, may be present in some tap water or unchlorinated well
water.
CARE AND CLEANING
• To maintain proper working conditions cleaning is required when
mineral deposits appear on the spray orifices. To clean mineral
deposits, gently rub the rubber nozzles on the face of the shower
head to dislodge.
• To clean heavier deposits, remove shower head and soak face
down in 1-2 cups of white vinegar (use white vinegar only) for
about 2-3 hours. Replace shower head and run in each mode to
flush out vinegar.
• Do not clean or rinse any part with harsh chemicals, heavy
duty cleaners, or abrasives; this may damage parts or finish
and will void warranty.
• Clean filter screen by unscrewing from the pivot ball and rinse
by back flushing to remove particles. Follow steps 1-4 under
installation to reinstall shower head.
TROUBLESHOOTING GUIDE
No water flow from a Confirm previous shower washer is not in
installed shower head the shower pipe.
b Confirm there is only one washer in the
pivot ball.
Low water pressure or a Clean shower head in vinegar/water
missing spray patterns solution. (See care & cleaning section).
b Clean filter screen.
Leaking at pipe pivot ball a Confirm only one washer is seated on top
connection of the screen.
b Grate bar of soap across the shower pipe
threads to act as a sealant.
Shower head too stiff to a Loosen shower head from large nut
change angle (contact Water Pik for further instructions).
Loose Shower Head a Check inside the large nut for a large
plastic ring. Note: the ring is tapered.
Make sure the ring is installed correctly.
The smooth surfaced side of the ring
should face towards the pipe inside the
large nut and will snap into place when
properly installed.
LIFETIME LIMITED WARRANTY
Save your receipt. Proof of purchase is required for warranty
action. Water Pik, Inc. warrants to the original purchaser of this
product that it is free from defects in material and workmanship
for as long as the original purchaser owns this product. Water
Pik, Inc. will replace the product which in our opinion is defective,
provided that the product has not been abused, misused, altered or
damaged after purchase. (This includes damage due to use of tools
or harsh chemicals.) In the event an item has been discontinued we
will replace with what we deem to be the closest product. Water
Pik, Inc. is not responsible for labor charges, installation, or other
consequential cost. The responsibility of Water Pik, Inc. shall not
exceed the original purchase price of the product. This warranty gives
you specific legal rights. You may also have other rights that vary
depending on where you reside.
Water Pik disclaims all other express or implied warranties to the
extent permitted by law including, but not limited to, all warranties
of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. All implied
warranties are limited to the duration of this limited warranty. Some
states or provinces may not allow limitation on how long an implied
warranty lasts, so above may not apply to you.
Limitation of Liability: This limited warranty is your sole remedy
against Water Pik and it shall not be liable for any damages, whether
direct, indirect, incidental, special, consequential, exemplary or
otherwise, including but not limited to property damage, arising out of
any theory of recovery, including statutory, contract or tort.
BINDING ARBITRATION AND WAIVER OF RIGHT TO ASSERT
MATTERS IN COURT AND RIGHT TO JURY TRIAL
By purchasing, installing, or using this product you agree that any
controversy or claim arising out of or relating to your purchase, use,
modification, installation, or removal of this product shall be settled by
binding arbitration. The arbitrator’s decision will be final and binding.
Judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered
in any court having jurisdiction over the matter. Further, you agree
that you will not have the right to litigate any claim arising out of or in
relation to your purchase, use, modification, installation, or removal of
this product in any court or to have a jury trial on that claim.
Arbitration of any matters shall be administered by the American
arbitration association and conducted by one arbitrator in accordance
with the consumer arbitration rules of the American Arbitration
Association in effect at the time of filing of the demand. The venue for
all such arbitrations shall be Colorado and any such arbitration shall
be subject to the Federal Arbitration Act and Colorado law.
WAIVER OF RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE IN CLASS ACTIONS OR
PURSUE CLAIMS IN A REPRESENTATIVE CAPACITY.
Further, by purchasing, installing, or using this product you agree that
arbitration must be on an individual basis. This means neither you,
nor we, may join or consolidate claims in arbitration by or against
other purchasers or users of Water Pik products or the general public.
Additionally, you may not litigate in court or arbitrate any claims as a
representative or member of a class or in a purported representative
capacity on behalf of the general public, other purchasers or users of
this product, other persons or entities similarly situated, or in a private
attorney general capacity.
If product malfunctions or becomes damaged, stop use and
contact Water Pik, Inc. for assistance.
Have any questions or need assistance?
For quick service prior to calling have your model number and receipt
ready.
In the U.S., call our toll-free In Canada, call our bilingual tollCustomer Assistance Line free Customer Assistance Line
1-800-525-2774, Monday – 1-888-226-3042, Monday –
Friday, 7:00 AM – 5:00 PM MST. Friday, 7:00 AM – 5:00 PM MST.
English only. or visit www.waterpik.ca
or visit www.waterpik.com
© 2020 Water Pik, Inc. Printed in China.
Water Pik, Inc., a subsidiary of Church & Dwight Co., Inc.
1730 East Prospect Road
Fort Collins, CO 80553-0001 U.S.A.
www.waterpik.com