1


Vacuum Cleaner
User Manual




Model No.: FVC18M13
*Before operating the unit, please read this manual thoroughly and retain it for future reference.
2
CONTENT PAGE
SAFETY INSTRUCTION 3
PARTS DESCRIPTION 4
OPERATION INSTRUCTION 5
MAINTENANCE INSTRUCTION 6
TROUBLE SHOOTING 7
SPECIFICATION 7
WARRANTY 8
3
SAFETY INSTRUCTION
1. To avoid electric shock, fire or injury, please read the user manual carefully before using the
appliance and keep it for future reference.
2. This appliance is for household use only. Please use suitable power source (220-240V~ 50/60Hz).
3. Never immerse the appliance in water or other liquids.
4. Do not operate the appliance with wet hands.
5. Do not use the appliance under direct sunshine, outdoor or on wet surfaces.
6. Please turn off the appliance when not in use otherwise it may result in danger.
7. Please turn off the appliance and unplug the socket when unattended otherwise it may result in
danger.
8. Keep the appliance away from children.
9. The appliance is not intended for used by children or persons with reduced physical, sensory or
mental capabilities, or lack of experience and knowledge, unless they have been given supervision
or instruction concerning use of the appliance by a person responsible for their safety.
10. Children should be supervised to ensure that they do not play with the appliance.
11. With any indication of malfunction (including power cord), please stop using the appliance
immediately to avoid hazard. Take it to the authorized service center for repair. Do not attempt to
repair or change any parts by yourself.
12. Please turn off the appliance before unplugging the socket.
13. Please turn off and unplug the appliance before cleaning or maintenance.
14. Clean the surface of the appliance with dry cloth. Do not use corrosive detergent or solvent to
clean. Do not swash the appliance with water.
15. Please turn off and unplug the appliance when not in use. Make sure the power is off before
pulling out the plug. Do not pull the cord.
16. Do not drag the appliance with the cord.
17. When the appliance is not in use for a prolonged period, please turn it off, unplug it, pack it well,
and store it in a dry cool place.
18. Forbid to put flammable and explosive objects around the appliance, and do not use the appliance
in an environment full of flammable gas and powder. Keep away from any fire and heat sources.
19. Please only use the attached accessories.
20. Do not insert any objects into the air outlet. Keep the air outlet free of dust and hair, as those may
reduce the suction.
21. Use extra care when vacuum cleaning on stairs.
22. Hold the plug when rewinding the power cord. Do not allow the plug and the power cord to whip
when rewinding.
23. Do not pick up anything that is burning, such as cigarettes, matches, or hot ashes.
24. Do not use the appliance without the dust bag and/or the filter in place.
25. Please put the power cord in the right place in order to avoid tripping the appliance over.
26. This appliance can be used by children aged from 8 years and above if they have been given supervision or
instruction concerning use of the appliance in a safe way and if they understand the hazards involved.
Cleaning and user maintenance shall not be made by children unless they are older than 8 and supervised.
27. Keep the appliance and its cord out of reach of children less than 8 years.
4
PARTS DESCRIPTION
1. Front cover handle 6. Speed control knob 11. Back cover
2. Dust bag cover 7. Cord rewinding button 12. Big wheel
3. Suck base 8. Air outlet cover 13. Left/Right ornament plate
4. Accessory cover 9. Brush hanger 14. Base body
5. Dust full indicator 10. On/Off switch
Crevice Nozzle
5
OPERATION INSTRUCTION
Notes:
If the air outlet, the extension tube or the hose is blocked, please switch off the appliance at once. Clear the
blocked substance before starting the appliance again.
Before using the appliance, please remove any large or sharp objects on the floor in order to prevent
damages to the filter.
ASSEMBLING THE VACUUM CLEANER
Fitting the hose： Insert the hose end into the hose socket at the
front cover until it clicks into position.
Remove the hose:
Press the adaptors at both side of the hose
end and then pull it out.
Fitting the
extendible metal
tube to the handle:
Connect the extendible metal tube to the
curved end of the hose.
Connect different accessories to the tube for different cleaning purposes:
Floor brush： For daily cleaning on carpets or floor.
Crevice nozzle：
For cleaning on sofas, corners or space
between furniture.
Round brush For cleaning on furniture, vents, and etc.
Extendible metal tube
6
START OPERATION:
1. Before using the appliance, unwind a sufficient length of the power cord and insert the plug into the socket.
2. Press On/Off switch to turn on the appliance.
3. Turn the speed control knob to adjust the suction power of the appliance.
4. To rewind the power cord, press the cord rewinding button with one hand and guide the cord with
another hand to ensure that it does not whip to cause damages.
5. The floor brush or the crevice nozzle can be inserted to the brush hanger at the back cover when it
is not in use. You can also press "PUSH" button to open the accessory cover for storage.
MAINTENANCE INSTRUCTION
Change the dust bag or outlet filter:
1. When the dust full indicator turns to red, please switch off the appliance and unplug the power
cord before clearing the dust or replace with a new bag.
2. Remove the hose and open the front cover.
3. Take out the bag holder then remove the full dust bag.
4. The motor protection filter should be removed and rinsed once a year. It can be reused after
dry. If the filter is damage, please replace with a new filter.
5. Wash or exchange the outlet filter (HEPA): Clip down and remove the outlet cover by hands
for wash or exchange of filter. 
7
TROUBLE SHOOTING
Problem Possible cause Solution
The electric motor does
not work
 Check if the power plug is plugged
well to the socket.
 Check if there is power in the socket.
 Check if the switch of the appliance is
turned on.
 Re-plug the plug to the socket.
 Make sure there is power in the
socket.
 Press the On/Off switch to turn on
the appliance.
The suction power is
weak
 Check if the floor brush or the hose is
clogged.
 Check if the dust bag is full of dust.
 Check if the front cover is closed.
 Check if the filter is clogged.
 Check if the extendible metal tube is
connected with the floor brush right.
 Remove the clogging timely.
 Clean or replace the dust bag.
 Close the front cover.
 Clean the filter.
 Connect the extendible metal tube
and floor brush right.
The power line cannot
wind up completely
 Check if the power line is twisted.  Pull out the power line for 2-3m,
and then re-winding.
The power line cannot be
pulled out smoothly
 Check if the power line is twisted.  Press the cord rewinding button,
wind-up and pull-out the power line
repeatedly.
The speed cannot be
regulated
 The speed control knob does not work,
or the speed regulation engine falls
off.
 Turn on and turn off the machine
for several times, and if it still does
not work, send to the maintenance
department for repair.
The power line winds up
automatically
 The winder winds up the power line
automatically.
 Pull out and wind up the power line
for 4-5 times, and if it is still out of
order, send to the maintenance
department for repair.
SPECIFICATION
 Model No. FVC18M13
 Product name Vacuum Cleaner
 Rated Voltage/Frequency 220-240V~ 50/60Hz
 Rated Power 1800W
 Dimension (W x H x D) 435x240x306mm
8
WARRANTY
1. The product has 2 years warranty from the date of purchase.
2. The warranty shall not apply:
A. to any product subjected to misuse, alteration, act of God, improper handling, improper transport, improper
testing or unauthorized repair;
B. to cosmetic problems or defects which result from normal wear and tear under ordinary use yet not affecting the
performance or use of the product;
C. if the product is disassembled or altered;
D. to any packing, transportation, export / import tax or any related expenses.
3. CUSTOMER MUST PRESENT THE SALES INVOICE OR RECEIPT FOR 2 YEARS WARRANTY
SERVICES.
4. Please bring along the product and sales invoice or receipt to our services center for warranty services during office
hour:
Address : Unit A, 20/F, Yip Shing Industrial Centre, No.19, Yip Shing Street, Kwai Chung.
Service Hotline : (852) 2428 1500
Service Hours:
Monday-Friday : 9:00am - 6:00pm
Saturday : 9:00am - 4:00pm
Sunday & Public Holiday : Closed
5. To prevent circuit overload and fire, no more than one adaptor or one extension unit should be inserted into a socket
outlet. (Do not connect other appliances to the socket outlet supplying an electric heater.) No adaptor should be inserted
into any extension unit or vice versa.
6. Stop using an adaptor or an extension unit or a socket if its socket holes cannot firmly hold a plug if it is too hard to
insert a plug into it.
7. This appliance must be plugged into a specific 220V socket with no less than 10A provided. Please make sure the plug
is fully plugged-in before use. Do not use any adapter or extension cord; Never use the same supply socket for this
appliance and other appliances at the same time, in order to avoid damage to this appliance.
8. THE APPLIANCE IS FOR HOUSEHOLD USE ONLY.
ENVIRONMENT
Do not throw away the appliance with the normal household waste at the end of its life, but hand it in at an
official collection point for recycling. By doing this, you help preserving the environment.
IMPORTANT NOTICES
IN NO EVENT SHALL OUR COMPANY OR THE SUPPLIER BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANY OTHER PARTY FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, GENERAL SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, EXEMPLARY OR OTHER
DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PRODUCT (INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR INJURY, LOSS OF PROPERTY, BUSINESS PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
OR FROM ANY BREACH OF WARRANTY, EVEN IF OUR COMPANY OR SUPPLIER HAS BEEN ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. IN NO CASE SHALL OUR COMPANY OR SUPPLIER’S LIABILITY
EXCEED THE AMOUNT YOU PAID FOR THE PRODUCT.
Specifications, designs and dimensions are subject to change without prior notice.