OnePlus 5 User Manual
2
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
What’s in The Box?
Device
Alert Slider
Camera
Portrait Camera Mode
Dual Camera Zoom
Video
Pro Mode - Overview
Pro Mode - How to adjust settings
Hamburger Menu and Settings
Dash Charge
Display
Dual Nano SIM Card Tray
Fingerprint Sensor
Power On
OxygenOS
Setup
Launcher
Shelf
Customization
App Long Press
Reading Mode
Gaming DnD
Dialer
Messenger
Gallery
Weather
Recorder
File Manager
App Permission
Safety Information
Index
3
Welcome
Thank You!
The OnePlus 5 is the result of over 3 years of constant refinement.
Featuring a combination of top-notch hardware and fluid, open software to create
a smooth experience. Every part of the OnePlus 5 was deliberately selected and
optimized to ensure the best user experience
We built the OnePlus 5 together, focusing on what matters to your experience. The
goals and expectations of our flagship device have never been higher. We can’t wait
to see you experience the OnePlus 5 for yourself.
4 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
What’s in The Box
OnePlus 5 Dash Type-C Cable Quick Start Guide
Safety Information
Screen Protector Dash Power Adapter
(*Note: The screen
protector has been
pre-applied on the phone)
SIM Tray Ejector
5 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Device
USB Type- C
Dual Nano
SIM Slot
6 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Alert Slider
The Alert Slider, which is located on the upper edge of your phone, gives
you complete control over your notifications. Effortlessly toggle between 3
notification profiles without having to take your phone out of your pocket.
With the OnePlus 5, switching between notification profiles is faster and
easier than ever before.
None
Priority
All
Disables all notifications
(alarms will still be enabled)
Pushes notifications only from your priority
apps and contacts
(which you can program in Settings > Sound
& notification > App notifications)
Allows notifications from all apps and
contacts.
7 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Dual Camera
The OnePlus 5’s signature Dual Camera can be found on the rear of the
device, featuring a 16 MP wide-angle lens and a 20 MP telephoto lens to
enable a greater breadth of shots. Powered by exclusive Smart Capture
technology, and a suite of new features, the OnePlus 5 Dual Camera can take
extremely clear photos. On the front, you’ll find a 16 MP front-facing camera
for all your selfie and life-streaming needs.
8 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Portrait Mode
The OnePlus 5 uses two camera sensors together to generate a focal separation
between your subject and a background. Separating the background from a face
enables the OnePlus 5 to apply a professional depth-of-field, or bokeh, effect. To
activate Portrait Mode, simply open your camera app and swipe to the left. Center
your subject and allow the camera to apply a natural depth of field effect. Once
you’re happy with your shot, simple hit the shutter button to take the portrait.
9 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Dual Camera Zoom
With the help of the 20 megapixel telephoto lens, the OnePlus 5’s Dual Camera
system can zoom in at high resolution and maintain quality. A combination of
optical zoom and our multi-frame software algorithm lets you zoom with more
clarity than ever before. Just tap the zoom button once to immediately zoom to 2x,
or slide the zoom button left to manually zoom in up to 8x.
10 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Video
The OnePlus 5 comes equipped with a variety of video recording options, so you
can always find the right tool for the job. To start recording, just tap ‘video’ in
the hamburger menu or swipe right in the camera UI. Within this menu,you can
manually pick the type of video you would like to record, with options ranging from
1080P 60 FPS to 4K. 
11 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Pro Mode
The OnePlus 5 features an all-new Pro Mode that allows you to freely tweak and
optimize certain parameters of your photos. Within Pro Mode, which can easily be
accessed through the OnePlus 5’s camera UI, you can tweak among others, the
ISO, white balance, shutter-speed, focus and exposure for each shot. Simply tap on
the corresponding button to open the modification wheel of any given setting, and
turn the wheel to adjust it.
12 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Pro Mode - Continued
You’ll also have access to a new histogram in the top-right corner of your screen,
which helps you gauge the exposure level in the photo in order to correct
brightness. Using the gyroscope of the OnePlus 5, the reference line found in the
center of the screen, automatically adjusts to landscape or portrait views, turning
green when the shot is perfectly aligned. If you hit upon a settings profile, you can
store it and another profile in Pro Mode for easy access and quick adjustments.
13 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Hamburger Menu and Settings
Tap on the Hamburger menu in the Camera UI to unroll the menu options.
Aside from the options discussed elsewhere in this guide, you can also
access the time-lapse, slow motion, and panorama features in this menu.
You can also tap on the settings icon in the top-right corner of the screen,
which allows you to store location data, adjust the grid of the UI, and toggle
the histogram on or off.
14 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Dash Charge
The OnePlus 5 comes with Dash Charge, an exclusive technology that sets a new
benchmark for fast charging solutions. A quick 30-minute charge will give your
OnePlus 5 enough power for the day. Dash Charge powers your OnePlus 5 at
the same rate, even when streaming videos, playing graphic-intensive games or
navigating with GPS.
15 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Display
The OnePlus 5 comes equipped with a stunning 5.5” Optic AMOLED display.
Colors are more vivid and true-to-life than ever before, without increasing
power consumption. Three different color calibrations give you the freedom
to adjust your display for maximum comfort. The new DCI-P3 Display Mode
joins the sRGB and Default Display modes for enhanced flexibility.
16 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Dual SIM Card Tray
The OnePlus 5 is carrier-unlocked out of the box, with dual nano-SIM card
support. With the power to connect to two networks at the same time, you
can use one device for everything. The OnePlus 5 is a true world phone, with
support for 34 network bands worldwide.
Use the SIM Tray Ejector (found in the box) to remove the SIM tray from the
device. Up to two Nano SIM cards fit into the tray.
17 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Fingerprint Sensor
The premium ceramic fingerprint sensor unlocks your OnePlus 5 in
0.2 seconds, even when the screen is turned off. The sensor learns and
progressively improves, so your scans get even more precise over time.
18 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Power On
Turn on your OnePlus 5 by pressing and holding the <Power> button (found
on the right side of the device) for a few seconds. Follow the on-screen
instructions to start personalizing your OnePlus 5.
19 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
OxygenOS
OxygenOS is a fast, clean and customizable operating system based on
Android. By constantly refining the core functionalities of our software, and
implementing user feedback early and often, OxygenOS offers a smooth and
flexible user experience. 
20 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Setup
Upon booting up, proceed through the Google wizard to setup your Google account & sync, setup fingerprint and more. The OnePlus Setup gives you
the opportunity to personalize your OnePlus 5, allowing you to craft a smartphone experience that works just the way you want it to. You can enable
software buttons, gestures and other features as you see fit.
21 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Launcher
The launcher supports third-party icons and allows you to change your app
drawer grid, assign gestures & more. Users can freely switch between three
available icon packs, to make sure their phone suits their style. To access
the App Drawer, simply swipe up on the home screen. All of your apps are
automatically arranged in alphabetic order, for easy access. Long-press
on the home screen to open the launcher options, which you can use to
change to a different icon pack, select a different wallpaper, and more. Freely
customize quick access icons in the status bar to improve navigation.
You can re-arrange icons by long pressing on the home screen and clicking
“Rearrange” to remove clutter.
22
Shelf
Swipe right from your home screen to open up Shelf. This separate menu
grants access to your favorite apps, most frequent contacts and recent
photos. The clean and streamlined UI can be manually enhanced with
widgets or customized using a variety of intelligent options.
23 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Customization
OxygenOS features three different themes to give you full control of your
viewing experience. Change your accent color and even the color of your
LED from the customization page under settings. App icons can also be
resized for a cleaner and more consistent look. Navigation controls can be
tweaked using custom gesture controls and adjustable buttons. New to the
OnePlus 5 is the ability to adjust vibration intensity, and assign vibration
profiles to different callers to further personalize your experience. You’ll also
have access to three new off-screen gestures, that you can assign to different
apps and features for quick and easy access.
24 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
App Long Press
New app shortcut support functionality allows you to quickly use specific
in-app features from the comfort of your home screen. Just long press an App
to open the shortcut menu, and tap your desired feature. This enables you to,
for instance, open a new tab in your browser, compose an email, or check out
trending videos on Youtube without having to navigate the app.
25 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Reading mode
Reading on your smartphone is more comfortable than ever, thanks to
the OnePlus 5’s new Reading Mode. By filtering out blue light, gray-scale
mapping, and using ambient information to adjust the sharpness and
brightness of the display, Reading Mode simulates the reading experience of
a real book. Reading Mode can be toggled on and off manually in the settings
menu under ‘Display’. You can also this mode to turn on automatically when
you use certain apps.
26 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Gaming Do not Disturb
You don’t want to be disturbed while you’re in the heat of a challenging level.
When Gaming DND is turned on, notifications are blocked and the hardware
keys are turned off to ensure you won’t be bothered unnecessarily. You can
manually turn on Gaming DND in the Advanced Menu under Settings, and
you can also set Gaming DND to turn on automatically when you start up
your favorite games. 
27 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Dialer
Tap the on your home Screen or application drawer and use the dialer to make phone calls manually, or tap any contact card from the Speed
Dial list to quickly dial that contact. Select a phone number from Contacts, an e-mail, or a text message to make a call.
Contacts are automatically added to your Speed Dial list based on frequency of use. You can permanently pin contacts to the top of your Speed Dial list
by marking them as Favorites simply press the star icon on each contact you want to add.
28 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Messenger
To send an SMS, launch the Messenger application on your home screen
or application drawer. Enter the name or phone number in the field
or select someone from your contacts. Type your message, then tap .
For an MMS, in the Messenger application, select the media you
want to add . Type your message, then tap .
29
Gallery
With 16 different filters, the editing mode allows you to tweak your images
with actions like resize and crop.” instead of “With 16 different filters, the
editing mode allows you to resize and crop images.
| What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information 
30
Weather
This custom weather app provides a real-time look at the weather conditions at your location. The display’s visuals dynamically adapt to the environment
to indicate different types of weather and environmental hazards like rain or fog.
31
Recorder
Our dynamic recorder app provides great flexibility and versatility. Stay on
top of your recording by tracking the volume of all incoming sound and
manually place timestamps to mark important moments.
32
File Manager
The File Manager has been enhanced with numerous new features. Now
users can hide their private documents, photos and in Secure box, a private
zone that can be unlocked by pin verification or fingerprint. Files also can be
categorized and labeled to improve the structure of your files, keep track of
your files using new storage info, and enjoy a much improved search
function. All of your Google drive files are supported within our File Manager.
33 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
App permissions
App Permissions allow you to control what information and permissions your
apps can access, like location, identity, contacts and more. Customize their
permissions in the apps page, found under settings.
34 | What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
Safety Information
This user manual contains all necessary product safety literature.
Please read carefully before using the device, and retain the manual for future reference.
Declaration
OnePlus is trademark or registered trademark of OnePlus Technology (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd.. All rights reserved. Without prior written permission of
OnePlus, reproduction, transfer, distribution or storage of the contents in this document in any form is prohibited. OnePlus operates a policy of ongoing
development. Thus, OnePlus reserves the right to make changes or improvements to any of the products described in this document without prior
notice. The contents of this document are all provided “as is”. Except as required by applicable law, no warranties of any kind, either express or implied,
are made in relation to the accuracy of this document. To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, under no circumstances shall OnePlus or any
of its licensors be responsible for any loss of data or incur or any special, incidental, consequential, or indirect damages caused. Availability of product
supplies, application software, and accessories may vary. For detailed information, please refer to an authorized OnePlus distributor. This device may
contain commodities, technology, or software subject to export laws and regulations. Diversion contrary to law is prohibited.
35
Safety
Failure to follow these guidelines may cause injury to your device, property, yourself, or others.
• Do not switch on the device when prohibited, or when it may cause interference or danger.
• When operating the device in a vehicle, obey and follow all related local laws.
• Do not use the device at gas stations, service stations, or near fuel or chemicals.
• Mobile phones might cause interference with radio frequencies. Check all laws and regulations during a flight.
• Hospitals or healthcare organizations may use equipment that is sensitive to radio frequencies. Please obey all rules and regulations when you are at
above facilities.
• All wireless devices may be susceptible to radio frequencies interference, which could affect the performance of your device.
• Only qualified and authorized personnel should perform repairs to this product.
• Please only use branded accessories and batteries that are approved by OnePlus with your device. Accessories which are not approved by OnePlus
may damage the phone or cause body harm.
• This device is not water-resistant. Please keep it away from humid conditions.
• When connecting with other devices, please follow the safety guidelines which are presented in this manual.
• Do not attempt to connect your device with incompatible products.
| What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
36
Battery Precautions
• Please do not attempt to repair, disassemble or modify the battery. Do not place or use battery near fires, heaters, direct sunlight, or other heat
sources. Prolonged exposure to heat may cause battery leakage, explosions, or fires.
• Please do not place pressure on or pierce the battery with hard objects. Damaging the battery could cause battery leakage, overheating, or fires.
• Battery liquid may cause damage to skin or clothes. If exposed, immediately wash skin with water and seek medical attention.
• If you experience any battery abnormalities, such as high temperature, discoloration, distortion, or leakage, immediately discontinue usage of the
device and contact customer support.
• If the battery’s internal liquid comes in contact with your eyes, rinse thoroughly and immediately seek medical attention.
• Do not connect your device to a high-voltage power supply or the battery could become damaged.
• All batteries have a limited lifespan and will begin to lose capacity after several hundred charges/discharges.
• Do not dispose of the battery as household waste. Please refer to local regulations.
WARNING: Please do not charge the battery over 12 hours.
| What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
37
To save power and achieve longer battery life
• Features like Bluetooth and Wi-Fi consume more power, please disable these features when you phone is not in use.
• The brighter the screen is set, more energy will be consumed; you can dim the screen brightness and shorten the sleep time in the settings.
• Make sure only using outlets with the correct voltages (as labelled on the adapter) for charging. Using the sockets with incorrect voltage can
damage your phone and/or battery and lead to injury.
• Do not use unsafe plugs or outlets.
• Do not use a short-circuit charger.
• Do not disassemble or modify the charger, as this may lead to personal injury, electric shock or fire.
• Do not use the charger in humid environment.
• Do not touch the charger, cable or power socket with wet hands, as this may cause electric shock.
• Do not place heavy objects on the power cord or attempt to modify any cables.
• Make sure to grasp the charger firmly while unplugging it. Do not pull the power cord as this may lead to damage and cause electric shock or fire.
• Before cleaning the device, unplug the power plug from the socket.
• Do not charge the battery under the following conditions: in direct sunlight, in temperatures below 5°C or above 40°C; in the environment with
humidity, dust or strong vibrations; in areas near a TV, radio or other electrical appliances.
• The maximum ambient charging temperature of the equipment declared by manufacturer is 25°C.
• The charger is intended for indoor use only.
| What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
38
Driving Safely
• Safety should take priority when you are operating a vehicle. Be sure to obey related regulations in the area or country in which you drive.
• Please do not store or carry your mobile phone or accessories near liquid or flammable gas. Make sure you do not place your phone or accessories
near safety air bags.
• Do not rely solely on the GPS in your phone; these applications are only for reference purposes only. Location information changes regularly, and in
some places these features are not supported. Map routes and/or compass may be incorrect, incomplete or unsupported.
• Electromagnetic waves (in the surrounding environment or even earphone magnets) can disrupt the accuracy of the compass, so please only use it
for reference.
• If you do not wish to disclose your location, be sure not use applications that can record your location. Please obey the rules, law and your local
regulations.
| What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
39
Operating Environment
• Please switch off your device whenever phone use is prohibited or when it may cause interference or danger.
• Mobile phones may interfere with the normal operation of electronic equipment and medical devices. Please follow related laws and regulations.
• Your mobile phone’s radio waves may interfere with high accuracy electronic equipment.
• Only operate your phone between -10-35°C temperature and 35-85% humidity.
• In extremely rare occasions, the device may affect a vehicle’s electronic equipment.
| What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
40
FCC & IC Statement
1. This device complies with part 15 of the FCC rules. Operation is subject to the following two conditions:
• this device may not cause harmful interference, and.
• this device must accept any interference received, including interference that may cause undesired operation.
2. Le présent appareil est conforme aux CNR d’Industrie Canada applicables aux appareils radio exempts de licence. L’exploitation est autorisée aux deux
conditions suivantes:
• l’appareil ne doit pas produire de brouillage, et.
• l’utilisateur de l’appareil doit accepter tout brouillage radioélectrique subi, même si le brouillage est susceptible d’en compromettre
le fonctionnement.
3. This Class B digital apparatus complies with Canadian ICES-003. Cet appareil numérique de la classe B est conforme à la norme NMB-003 du Canada.
OnePlus is not responsible for any radio or TV interference caused by unauthorized modifications or changes to this equipment. Such modifications or
changes could void the user’s authority to operate the equipment.
This equipment has been tested and found to comply with the limits for a Class B digital device, pursuant to part 15 of the FCC Rules. These limits
are designed to provide reasonable protection against harmful to part interference in a residential installation. This equipment generates uses
and can radiate radio frequency energy and, if not installed and used in accordance with the instructions, may cause harmful interference to radio
communications.
However, there is no guarantee that interference will not occur in a particular installation. If this equipment does cause harmful interference to radio or
television reception, which can be determined by turning the equipment off and on, the user is encouraged to try to correct the interference by one or
more of the following measures:
• Reorient or relocate the receiving antenna.
• Increase the separation between the equipment and receiver.
• Connect the equipment into an outlet on a circuit different from that to which the receiver is connected.
• Consult the dealer or an experienced radio/TV technician for help.
| What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
41
FCC Caution
• Any changes or modifications not expressly approved by the party responsible for compliance could void the user’s authority to operate the
equipment.
• The antenna(s) used for this transmitter must not be co-located or operate in conjunction with any other antenna or transmitter.
• The country code selection is for non-US model only and is not available for all US models. Per FCC regulation, all Wi-Fi product marketed in US must
be fixed to US operation channels only.
• If applicable, operations in the 5.15-5.25GHz band are restricted to indoor usage only.
| What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
42
RF Exposure Information (SAR)
This device meets the government’s requirements for exposure to radio waves.
This device is designed and manufactured not to exceed the emission limits for exposure to radiofrequency (RF) energy set by the Federal
Communications Commission of the U.S. Government.
• The exposure standard for wireless devices employs a unit of measurement known as the Specific Absorption Rate, or SAR. The SAR limit set by the
FCC is 1.6W/kg. Tests for SAR are conducted using standard operating positions accepted by the FCC with the device transmitting at its highest
certified power level in all tested frequency bands.
• Although the SAR is determined at the highest certified power level, the actual SAR level of the device while operating can be well below the
maximum value. This is because the device is designed to operate at multiple power levels so as to use only the power required to reach the network.
In general, the closer you are to a wireless base station antenna, the lower the power output.
• While there may be differences between the SAR levels of various devices and at various positions, all meet the government requirement.
• This device has also been tested and meets the FCC RF exposure guidelines for use with an accessory that contains no metal and positions the
handset a minimum of 1.0 cm from the body.
• Use of other accessories may not ensure compliance with FCC RF exposure guidelines. Position the handset a minimum of 1.0 cm from your body
when the device is switched on.
| What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
43
CE Certification Information (SAR)
The SAR limit of Europe is 2.0 W/kg. This device was tested for typical operation with the back of the handset kept 1.5cm from the body. To maintain
compliance with RF exposure requirements, use accessories that maintain a 1.5cm separation distance between your body and the back of the handset.
The use of belt clips, holsters and similar accessories should not contain metallic components in its assembly. The use of accessories that do not satisfy
these requirements may not comply with RF exposure requirements, and should be avoided.
If you are using a pacemaker, hearing aids, cochlear implant or similar device, please use the phone according to your doctor’s advice.
Your device is designed not to exceed the limits of emission of radio waves recommended by international guidelines.
The SAR value of the device may depend on factors such as proximity to the network tower or use of accessories.
| What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
44
E-Waste Disposal Declaration
E-waste refers to discarded electronics and electronic equipment (WEEE). Ensure that an authorized agency repairs devices when needed. Do not
dismantle the device on your own. Always discard used electronic products, batteries and accessories at the end of their life cycle; use an authorized
collection point or collection center.
Do not dispose of e-waste into garbage bins. Do not dispose of batteries into household waste. Some waste contains hazardous chemicals if not
disposed properly. Improper disposal of waste may prevent natural resources from being reused, as well as release toxins and greenhouse gases into the
environment.

| What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
45
Additional Important health and Safey Information
• Please do not use the phone if the antenna is damaged. Doing so may cause injury.
• Do not place the phone near magnetic cards or other magnetic objects. Information stored on floppy discs, memory cards, and credit cards can be
damaged by magnetic radiation.
• Please keep metallic objects away from phone receiver. Small metallic objects may be attracted to the device, resulting in personal injury or device
damage.
• Keep the phone away from water and other liquids.
• Damage to the display can lead to leakage of the liquid inside the LCD panel. If this liquid comes in contact with your eyes, flush your eyes with water
immediately. Do not rub. Immediately seek medical attention.
• Only use OnePlus authorized batteries and chargers with your OnePlus phone. Using third-party products may cause battery leakage, overheating
or fires. OnePlus does not take any responsibility for accidents or problems caused by using accessories that are not approved by OnePlus.
• Only connect to power sources with USB 2.0 or above.
WARNING: Excessive sound pressure may harm your hearing.
| What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
46
Care and Maintenance
Your phone is a product of superior design and craftsmanship and should be treated with care.
The following suggestions will help you to prolong the life of your device.
• Please clean immediately if the screen comes in contact with liquid or dust.
• Please do not touch the connection port of the phone, as static electricity may harm components in the device.
• Do not hit, shake, or drop the phone to avoid damage and injury.
• Do not put pressure on the device, as it may damage the screen, battery, or the device itself.
• Do not place the battery, phone, or charger in a microwave oven or other high voltage equipment. Doing so may cause circuit damage, fires, or
other damage.
• Do not use the phone around flammable gas.
• Please keep the phone out of reach of children in order to prevent injuries or property damage.
• Do not place the phone on uneven or unstable surfaces.
• Please remember that the phone, battery, and charger are not waterproof. Do not use these devices in the bathroom or areas with high temperature,
humidity, dust or rain.
• Use soft cloth that is dry and clean when cleaning the phone, battery and charger.
• Do not use alcohol or harsh chemicals to clean the device.
• Use a soft cloth when removing dirt and smudges. Avoid using your fingernails or other sharp objects to prevent scratching the screen.
• Avoid using dirty sockets when charging your phone. Doing so may cause your phone to fail to charge properly.
• Do not remove the SIM card while the phone is transmitting data or saving information.
• Avoid using modified accessories, which may damage the device or violate local regulations for radio devices.
• If applicable, the user should turn off 5GHz Wi-Fi in outdoor environments.
Some people may get dizzy or experience medical problems in response to flashing lights. If you are at risk, please consult your doctor before using
this device. If you have the following symptoms: headache, dizziness, convulsion, eyes or muscle cramps, loss of consciousness, or involuntary body
movements, please stop using the device immediately and seek medical attention. Avoid using the device for extended periods and keep proper
distance from your eyes.
WARNING: Before using the phone, please read the health and safety information carefully.
| What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
47
EU Regulatory Conformance
Hereby, OnePlus Technology (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. declares that this device is in compliance with the essential requirements and other relevant
provisions of Directive 1999/5/EC.
Notice: Please check the local regulations in the location where the device is to be used. This device may be restricted for use in some or all member
states of the European Union (EU).
| What’s in the Box Device OxygenOS Safety Information
