Introduction

The player(s) listed on this contract agreed to come and play under the name Evil Habits terms and policies discussed in the following paragraphs. EVIL HABITS can terminate this contract at any time he wishes too .If contract is terminated that means that all players listed on this contract agrees to become free agents in the game Counter-Strike :Global Offense .

1.0 BASIC OVERVIEW

The players of Evil Habits Counter-Strike team agree to play under the name Evil Habits at all online, LAN, matches, scrimmages, practices, and social events and competitions that they attend.

While representing Evil Habits team members may not be asked to do anything else other than play, represent, create videos if instructed, advertise sponsors, practice, do interviews upon request or post blogs, and stream live on social media websites . The Evil Habits organization can place a performance requirement on the Evil Habits Team . The Evil Habits team will agree to play in the Perfect Alliance Organization League qualifier . Failure to qualify for the Perfect Alliance Organization League may result in a release of the team .

Note that Evil Habits has the choice to terminate the contract if proof is not given for the above circumstances. Proof must be provided if requested by Evil Habits must wear Evil Habits shirts, gear, products of sponsors, while streaming, or inside a tournament venue at all times. Evil Habits team above is expected and obligated to participate in events requested by Evil Habits Any player having caught a negative attitude toward an opposing player, team, fellow member, staff member of Evil Habits , or owner himself are subject for review and dismissal of the team and contract will be null and void.

3.1 CODE OF CONDUCT

Evil Habits holds the right to remove or prosecute any player violating such terms at will

Evil Habits team above will be expected to follow a set of guidelines when representing Evil Habits , their sponsors and partners.Each player is expected to be in good shape with no body impairing substances in the body during LAN events, or online competitions, or live streaming or social events representing Evil Habits or their sponsors. These substances include the following: illegal drugs, legal imitation plant like substances of any kind that impair judgment, alcohol, and over dozed prescriptions. A player may not be held accountable for use of drugs prescribed by a doctor for any medical condition he or she may have.

No player shall use language in any official event that is represented by Evil Habits no matter what kind of venue or online. This includes social events, forums, chat rooms, while representing Evil Habits and their sponsors. Players twenty-one and older may purchase alcoholic beverages after all matches have concluded.

If a team is labeled dead, inactive, moved down online out of a professional invite status, LAN, or other various competitive league or competition, Evil Habits has the right to enable this contract null and void for the players listed above. Evil Habits is not resposnible for any injury or crime commited by any of the players on the Evil Habits team .

3.2 EXPIRATION OF CONTRACT

Following the signing of this contract the player who signed this document/contract is hereby obligated to play/represent/ and is with Evil Habits for 30 days. If this player chooses to leave prior to the 30 days it may be discussed only with Evil Habits , through email at evilhabitsgg@gmail.com. Only Evil Habits has the right to terminate this contract. Evil Habits has the right to hold the players contract until the 30 days are up. 3.3Evil Habits has the right to release the player to another team or organization . Evil Habits has the right to sell this contract to another company or organization if he may choose. Upon the selling of this contract then he player is released from Evil Habits and is obligated to play for the organization who bough tout the remainder of the contract. That company has the right to then terminate this contract at anytime in which they may choose.If Evil Habits declines a players request for termination of contract, then the player has the right to buy out the remainder of his contract. The total for the purchase of the contract will be calculated by Evil Habits . After 30 days has ended , both parties may renegotiate and sign again .

4.0 BILL OF RIGHTS

Players,team, and everyone signing this contract retain the following rights:1. All roster changes are left up to the team leader stated here: ___QUIMBS___________ AND Evil Habits .If he or she is unable to perform his or her duties they may be passed to the back-up leader that will be assigned by Evil Habits .Evil Habits has the right to dismiss a player only if a part of the code of conduct has been breached.2. Players above practice, will have match times, dates, and lengths are to be decided by the leader,co-leader, or by Evil Habits when requested .3. If above leader or co-leader or scheduler for online matches fails to do their duties Evil Habits the right to schedule events or matches or social meetings.

5.0 NULL / VOID

In the case that a player breaks the code of conduct at a tournament in which their is a prize or EvilHabits, or their sponsors are in any which way are financing then that player forfeits their share of the ending prize. If a situation is not included in this contract, Evil Habits may take the matter to court. Person or persons signing this contract may not take any member of Evil Habits to court for any legal matter . Should a player break the code of conduct only that player will have the right to dismissal. If the player begins a LAN event at a venue he has the right to finish the final or LAN event and collect his rightfultshare of the prize.If this is not the case, the player may be dismissed instantly, Legal action may not be taken upon Evil Habits