Maintenance Agreement

This agreement is between Company/Developer and Client/company, the Client.

Client is contracting Company/Developer as a provider of web site maintenance services for the period of 12 months. Services not considered 'standard website maintenance' are subject to be charged at a regular hourly rate of £20, and will not be considered part of this contract. The minimum charge for maintenance is £00, any additional work that is included in this agreement will be charged at £20/per hour.

What we offer:

Many people encounter problems with their websites due to the fact that not all browsers render sites in the same way. While it may look fine in one version, it could appear completely different in another.
In order to ensure consistency of design across the growing number of browsers, a site needs regular testing. This is no easy task, requiring both sufficient time and know-how.
At Company/Developer we are dedicated to regular monitoring and updating to ensure impeccable performance across all major browsers.
Hacking is a growing concern for on-line businesses. As attacks adapt and become ever more sophisticated by the day, it is more important than ever to take measures to protect your websites against hidden viruses and malicious software.
Company/Developer will make sure you have the defences you need, utilizing the latest security software to prevent hackers from gaining access to your site. We can also protect your emails from spam attacks, which can be troublesome and frequent if not dealt with efficiently.
Onpage SEO such as Meta tags (title, description, keywords), alt tag, h1, h2, h3.
It is extremely important to ensure that your information is backed up in order to avoid losing hard-earned work, information and/or software.
Company/Developer will perform regular and thorough backups of your site so that it may be fully restored in case of loss.
We’re here should you need us for consultation and advice. We’re not just experts in building websites, we are also experts in the web. We’re aware of what other sites are doing and what is possible.
We will share what we have learnt from other projects and from the industry at large. You can then decide which of these ideas apply to your business.
Today’s rich Internet experience is only possible because of functionality plugins. Some plugins work independently of your website's content and ﬁles, just adding a little something special to the page. Others require modiﬁcation of content and ﬁles, including changes to your database.
Some plugins may become outdated and no longer work with the newest version of your website software. Plugins may need upgrading to accommodate the newer version, or become obsolete with the improvements in the website software.
We will monitor your website functionality to ensure that everything is working as it should and upgrade where necessary.
Hosting is necessary in order to get your site onto the world wide web. However, it is also prone to being problematic and 'crashes' resulting in sites going offline are unavoidable from time to time.
The reasons for this downtime are numerous and the fault does not always lie with the hosting company itself. There may problems with connectivity beyond their control, for example. In an attempt to protect themselves, website owners usually opt for a hosting company with an uptime guarantee of anywhere between 95-100%. Unfortunately, these figures are largely unreliable and do not serve as a guarantee but rather as a marketing ploy to encourage people to sign up with them.
Downtime is highly inconvenient for any website owner and when it happens it is important to have someone on hand to help. Contacting the hosting company directly in the event of problems can lead to lengthy and complicated email conversations as many are now unreachable by telephone. Company/Developer can assist you by liaising with the hosting company to sort out the situation as quickly as possible.
Monitoring your website functionality to ensure that everything is working as it should and upgrade where necessary. Some plugins may become outdated and no longer work with the newest version of your website software. Plugins may need upgrading to accommodate the newer version, or become obsolete with the improvements in the website software.
Downtime is highly inconvenient for any website owner and when it happens it is important to have someone on hand to help. We can assist you by liaising with the hosting company to sort out the situation as quickly as possible.
Total Agreement:

Company/Developer shall provide Client with minor updates to the web site for an indefinite period of within this contract. The contract will be paid on a Monthly Basis with the 1st payment due as soon as this document is signed and each payment due around the date of initial payment of each month.

During the duration of this contract, the Client agrees that Company/Developer will be the sole provider of maintenance services for the web site, and no other party will have access to or rights to change the web site. If a party other than Company/Developer makes changes to the web site, any errors that are created must be repaired and will be charged for at the hourly rate specified above. Minor updates should not exceed more than 50% of the content on any single site page, THE PERCENTAGE TO BE DETERMINED BY COMPANY/DEVELOPER.

Deadlines & Deliverables:

Company/Developer will respond to all maintenance requests from Client within 24 hours on weekdays and 48 hours on weekends, via email or phone, with a confirmation that the request was received, and an estimated completion date for each action item in the request. Maintenance requests received after 18:00 GMT may not be completed until the next business day unless prior arrangements have been made. Most work will be done within this time frame, this is mostly precautionary.

Company/Developer will adhere to all quoted deadlines for the deliverables in the maintenance requests at all possible costs. In the event that Company/Developer has any issues in delivering on a quoted deadline, Client will be notified via email or telephone the reasoning for any change.

Additional Services:

Any revisions, additions or redesign Client requests Company/Developer to perform that is not specified in this document shall be considered "additional" and will require separate agreement and payment. Company/Developer shall advise Client on any requested work that falls within these bounds.

Authorisation:

Client hereby authorises Company/Developer to access their web hosting account, providing active user name / password combinations for access to the server via FTP, assuring that 'write permissions' are in place on said hosting provider.

Legal:

This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the United Kingdom applicable therein.

Signing this document means you agree to the terms of this document “CMS Website Maintenance Agreement”.