Congratulations on your purchase and welcome to Philips!
To fully benefit from the support that Philips offers, register
your product at www.philips.com/welcome.
Your new airfryer allows you to prepare your favourite ingredients and
snacks in a healthier way.
The airfryer uses hot air in combination with high-speed air circulation
(Rapid Air) and a top grill to prepare a variety of tasty dishes in a healthy,
fast and easy way. Your ingredients are heated from all sides at once
and there is no need to add oil to most of the ingredients. With the
additional baking tray (HD9225 only) you can now make dishes like
cakes and quiches and cook fragile food in a more convenient way.
For more inspiration for recipes and information about the airfryer,
visit www.philips.com/kitchen.
General description (Fig. 1)
1 Double layer accessory (HD9226 only)
2 Divider (HD9220/A, HD9225/A, HD9226/A only, check product type
plate on the bottom of the appliance)
3 Basket
4 Basket release button
5 Basket handle
6 Pan
7 Baking tray (HD9225 only)
8 Air inlet
9 Temperature control knob (80-200°C)
10 Timer (0-30 min.)/power-on knob
11 Heating-up light
12 Air outlet openings
13 Cord storage compartment
14 Mains cord
Important
Read this user manual carefully before you use the appliance and save it for
future reference.
Danger
- Never immerse the housing, which contains electrical components and
the heating elements, in water nor rinse it under the tap.
- Do not let any water or other liquid enter the appliance to prevent
electric shock.
- Always put the ingredients to be fried in the basket, to prevent it from
coming into contact with the heating elements.
- Do not cover the air inlet and the air outlet openings while the
appliance is operating.
- Do not fill the pan with oil as this may cause a fire hazard.
- Never touch the inside of the appliance while it is operating.
Warning
- Check if the voltage indicated on the appliance corresponds to the local
mains voltage before you connect the appliance.
- Do not use the appliance if the plug, the mains cord or the appliance
itself is damaged.
- If the mains cord is damaged, you must have it replaced by Philips, a
service centre authorised by Philips or similarly qualified persons in
order to avoid a hazard.
- This appliance is not intended for use by persons (including children)
with reduced physical, sensory or mental capabilities, or lack of
experience and knowledge, unless they have been given supervision or
instruction concerning use of the appliance by a person responsible for
their safety.
- Keep the appliance and its cord out of the reach of children.
- Keep the mains cord away from hot surfaces.
- Do not plug in the appliance or operate the control panel with wet hands.
- Only connect the appliance to an earthed wall socket. Always make
sure that the plug is inserted into the wall socket properly.
- This appliance is not intended to be operated by means of an external
timer or a separate remote-control system.
- Do not place the appliance on or near combustible materials such as a
tablecloth or curtain.
- Do not place the appliance against a wall or against other appliances.
Leave at least 10cm free space on the back and sides and 10cm free
space above the appliance. Do not place anything on top of the appliance.
- Do not use the appliance for any other purpose than described in
this manual.
- Do not let the appliance operate unattended.
- During hot air frying, hot steam is released through the air outlet
openings. Keep your hands and face at a safe distance from the steam
and from the air outlet openings.Also be careful of hot steam and
air when you remove the pan from the appliance.
- The accessible surfaces may become hot during use (Fig. 2).
- Immediately unplug the appliance if you see dark smoke coming out of
the appliance. Wait for the smoke emission to stop before you remove
the pan from the appliance.
- The baking tray becomes hot all over when it is used in the airfryer.
Always use oven gloves when handling the baking tray.
Caution
- Place the appliance on a horizontal, even and stable surface.
- This appliance is intended for normal household use only. It is not intended
for use in environments such as staff kitchens of shops, offices, farms or
other work environments. Nor is it intended to be used by clients in hotels,
motels, bed and breakfasts and other residential environments.
- If the appliance is used improperly or for professional or semiprofessional purposes or if it is not used according to the instructions in
the user manual, the guarantee becomes invalid and Philips refuses any
liability for damage caused.
- Always return the appliance to a service centre authorised by Philips for
examination or repair. Do not attempt to repair the appliance yourself,
otherwise the guarantee becomes invalid.
- Always unplug the appliance after use.
- Let the appliance cool down for approx. 30 minutes before you handle
or clean it.
- Make sure the ingredients prepared in this appliance come out goldenyellow instead of dark or brown. Remove burnt remnants. Do not
fry fresh potatoes at a temperature above 180°C (to minimise the
production of acrylamide).
Automatic switch-off
This appliance is equipped with a timer. When the timer has counted down
to 0, the appliance produces a bell sound and switches off automatically.
To switch off the appliance manually, turn the timer knob anticlockwise to 0.
Electromagnetic fields (EMF)
This Philips appliance complies with all standards regarding electromagnetic
fields (EMF). If handled properly and according to the instructions in this
user manual, the appliance is safe to use based on scientific evidence
available today.
Before first use
1 Remove all packaging material.
2 Remove any stickers or labels from the appliance.
3 Thoroughly clean the basket and the pan with hot water,some
washing-up liquid and a non-abrasive sponge.
Note: You can also clean these parts in the dishwasher.
4 Wipe the inside and outside of the appliance with a moist cloth.
This is an airfryer that works on hot air. Do not fill the pan with oil or
frying fat.
Preparing for use
1 Place the appliance on a stable, horizontal and level surface.
Do not place the appliance on non-heat-resistant surfaces.
2 Place the basket in the pan properly (Fig. 3).
3 Pull the mains cord out of the cord storage compartment in the
bottom of the appliance.
Do not fill the pan with oil or any other liquid.
Do not put anything on top of the appliance. This disrupts the airflow and
affects the hot air frying result.
Using the appliance
The airfryer can prepare a large range of ingredients. The recipe booklet
included helps you get to know the appliance. You can find more recipes at
www.philips.com/kitchen.
Hot air frying
1 Put the mains plug in an earthed wall socket.
2 Carefully pull the pan out of the airfryer (Fig. 4).
3 Put the ingredients in the basket (Fig. 5).
Note: Never fill the basket beyond the MAX indication or exceed the amount
indicated in the table (see section ‘Settings’ in this chapter), as this could affect
the quality of the end result.
4 Slide the pan back into the airfryer (Fig. 6).
Tips
- Smaller ingredients usually require a slightly shorter preparation time
than larger ingredients.
- A larger amount of ingredients only requires a slightly longer
preparation time, a smaller amount of ingredients only requires a slightly
shorter preparation time.
- Shaking smaller ingredients halfway through the preparation time
optimises the end result and can help prevent unevenly fried ingredients.
- Add some oil to fresh potatoes for a crispy result. Fry your ingredients
in the airfryer within a few minutes after you added the oil.
- Do not prepare extremely greasy ingredients such as sausages in
the airfryer.
- Snacks that can be prepared in an oven can also be prepared in
the airfryer.
- The optimal amount for preparing crispy fries is 500 grams.
- Use pre-made dough to prepare filled snacks quickly and easily.
Pre-made dough also requires a shorter preparation time than
home-made dough.
- Place the baking tray (HD9225 only) or oven dish in the airfryer
basket if you want to bake a cake or quiche or if you want to fry fragile
ingredients or filled ingredients (Fig. 15).
- You can also use the airfryer to reheat ingredients. To reheat ingredients,
set the temperature to 150°C for up to 10 minutes.
Min-max
Amount
(g)
Time
(min.)
Temperature
(°C)
Shake Extra
information
Potatoes &
fries
Thin frozen
fries
300-700 12-16 200 Shake
Thick frozen
fries
300-700 12-20 200 Shake
Homemade fries
(8x8mm)
300-800 18-25 180 Shake add 1/2
tbsp of oil
Home-made
potato wedges
300-800 18-22 180 Shake add 1/2
tbsp of oil
Homemade potato
cubes
300-750 12-18 180 Shake add 1/2
tbsp of oil
Rosti 250 15-18 180
Potato gratin 500 18-22 180
Meat &
Poultry
Steak 100-500 8-12 180
Pork chops 100-500 10-14 180
Hamburger 100-500 7-14 180
Sausage roll 100-500 13-15 200
Drumsticks 100-500 18-22 180
Chicken breast 100-500 10-15 180
Snacks
Spring rolls 100-400 8-10 200 Shake Use ovenready
Frozen chicken
nuggets
100-500 6-10 200 Shake Use ovenready
Frozen fish
fingers
100-400 6-10 200 Use ovenready
Frozen
breadcrumbed
cheese snacks
100-400 8-10 180 Use ovenready
Stuffed
vegetables
100-400 10 160
Baking
Cake 300 20-25 160 Use baking
tray
Quiche 400 20-22 180 Use baking
tray/oven
dish
Never use the pan without the basket in it.
Caution: Do not touch the pan during and some time after use, as it gets
very hot. Only hold the pan by the handle.
5 Turn the temperature control knob to the required temperature.
See section ‘Settings’ in this chapter to determine the right
temperature (Fig. 7).
Note: If you want to prepare different ingredients at the same time, make sure
you check the preparation time and the temperature required for the different
ingredients before you start to prepare them simultaneously. Home-made fries
and drumsticks, for example,can be prepared simultaneously because they
require the same settings.
6 Determine the required preparation time for the ingredient
(see section ‘Settings’ in this chapter).
7 To switch on the appliance, turn the timer knob to the
required preparation time (Fig. 8).
Add 3 minutes to the preparation time when the appliance is cold.
Note: If you want, you can also let the appliance preheat without any
ingredients inside. In that case, turn the timer knob to more than 3 minutes and
wait until the heating-up light goes out (after approx. 3 minutes). Then fill the
basket and turn the timer knob to the required preparation time.
, The heating-up light goes on (Fig. 9).
, The timer starts counting down the set preparation time.
, During the hot air frying process, the heating-up light comes on and
goes out from time to time. This indicates that the heating element is
switched on and off to maintain the set temperature.
, Excess oil from the ingredients is collected on the bottom of the pan.
8 Some ingredients require shaking halfway through the preparation
time (see section ‘Settings’ in this chapter). To shake the ingredients,
pull the pan out of the appliance by the handle and shake it. Then slide
the pan back into the airfryer (Fig. 10).
Caution: Do not press the basket release button during shaking (Fig. 11).
Tip: To reduce the weight, you can remove the basket from the pan and shake
the basket only. To do so, pull the pan out of the appliance, place it on a heatresistant surface and press the basket release button.
Tip: If you set the timer to half the preparation time, you hear the timer bell
when you have to shake the ingredients. However, this means that you have to
set the timer again to the remaining preparation time after shaking.
9 When you hear the timer bell, the set preparation time has elapsed.
Pull the pan out of the appliance and place it on a heat-resistant surface.
Note: You can also switch off the appliance manually. To do this, turn the timer
control knob to 0 (Fig. 8).
10 Check if the ingredients are ready.
If the ingredients are not ready yet, simply slide the pan back into the
appliance and set the timer to a few extra minutes.
11 To remove small ingredients (e.g. fries), press the basket release
button (1) and lift the basket out of the pan (2). (Fig. 12)
Do not turn the basket upside down with the pan still attached to it,
as any excess oil that has collected on the bottom of the pan will leak
onto the ingredients.
After hot air frying, the pan and the ingredients are hot. Depending on
the type of ingredients in the airfryer, steam may escape from the pan.
12 Empty the basket into a bowl or onto a plate. (Fig. 13)
Tip: To remove large or fragile ingredients, use a pair of tongs to lift the
ingredients out of the basket (Fig. 14).
13 When a batch of ingredients is ready, the airfryer is instantly ready
for preparing another batch.
Settings
This table below helps you to select the basic settings for the ingredients
you want to prepare.
Note: Keep in mind that these settings are indications. As ingredients differ in
origin, size, shape as well as brand, we cannot guarantee the best setting for
your ingredients.
Because the Rapid Air technology instantly reheats the air inside the
appliance, pulling the pan briefly out of the appliance during hot air
frying barely disturbs the process.
Environment
- Do not throw away the appliance with the normal household waste
at the end of its life, but hand it in at an official collection point for
recycling. By doing this, you help to preserve the environment (Fig. 16).
Guarantee and service
If you need service or information or if you have a problem, please visit
the Philips website at www.philips.com/support or contact the Philips
Consumer Care Centre in your country. You find its phone number in the
worldwide guarantee leaflet. If there is no Consumer Care Centre in your
country, go to your local Philips dealer.
Troubleshooting
This chapter summarises the most common problems you could encounter
with the appliance. If you are unable to solve the problem with the
information below, visit www.philips.com/support for a list of frequently
asked questions or contact the Consumer Care Centre in your country.
Problem Possible cause Solution
The airfryer
does not work.
The appliance is
not plugged in.
Put the mains plug in an earthed
wall socket.
You have not set
the timer.
Turn the timer knob to the
required preparation time to
switch on the appliance.
The ingredients
fried with
the airfryer are
not done.
The amount of
ingredients in
the basket is too
big.
Put smaller batches of ingredients
in the basket. Smaller batches are
fried more evenly.
The set
temperature is too
low.
Turn the temperature control
knob to the required temperature
setting (see section ‘Settings’ in
chapter ‘Using the appliance’).
The preparation
time is too short.
Turn the timer knob to the
required preparation time (see
section ‘Settings’ in chapter ‘Using
the appliance’).
The ingredients
are fried
unevenly in the
airfryer.
Certain types of
ingredients need
to be shaken
halfway through
the preparation
time.
Ingredients that lie on top of or
across each other (e.g. fries) need
to be shaken halfway through
the preparation time. See section
‘Settings’ in chapter ‘Using the
appliance’.
Fried snacks
are not crispy
when they
come out of
the airfryer.
You used a type
of snacks meant
to be prepared in
a traditional deep
fryer.
Use oven snacks or lightly brush
some oil onto the snacks for a
crispier result.
I cannot slide
the pan into
the appliance
properly.
There are
too much
ingredients in the
basket.
Do not fill the basket beyond the
MAX indication.
The basket is not
placed in the pan
correctly.
Push the basket down into the
pan until you hear a click.
The handle of
the baking tray
is obstructing the
pan.
Push the handle to a horizontal
position, so it does not stick out
on top of the basket.
White
smoke comes
out of the
appliance.
You are preparing
greasy ingredients.
When you fry greasy ingredients
in the airfryer, a large amount
of oil will leak into the pan. The
oil produces white smoke and the
pan may heat up more than usual.
This does not affect the appliance
or the end result.
The pan still
contains grease
residues from
previous use.
White smoke is caused by
grease heating up in the pan. Make
sure you clean the pan properly
after each use.
Min-max
Amount
(g)
Time
(min.)
Temperature
(°C)
Shake Extra
information
Muffins 300 15-18 200 Use baking
tray
Sweet snacks 400 20 160 Use baking
tray/oven
dish
Note: When you use ingredients that rise (such as with cake, quiche or muffins)
the baking tray should not be filled more than halfway.
Note: Add 3 minutes to the preparation time when you start frying while the
airfryer is still cold.
Making home-made fries
For the best results, we advise to use pre-baked (e.g. frozen) fries. If you
want to make home-made fries, follow the steps below.
1 Peel the potatoes and cut them into sticks.
2 Soak the potato sticks in a bowl for at least 30 minutes, take them
out and dry them with kitchen paper.
3 Pour ½ tablespoon of olive oil in a bowl, put the sticks on top and
mix until the sticks are coated with oil.
4 Remove the sticks from the bowl with your fingers or a kitchen
utensil so that excess oil stays behind in the bowl. Put the sticks in
the basket.
Note: Do not tilt the bowl to put all the sticks in the basket in one go, to prevent
excess oil from ending up on the bottom of the pan.
5 Fry the potato sticks according to the instructions in this chapter.
Cleaning
Clean the appliance after every use.
The pan, baking tray (HD9225 only), basket and the inside of the
appliance have a non-stick coating. Do not use metal kitchen utensils or
abrasive cleaning materials to clean them, as this may damage the nonstick coating.
1 Remove the mains plug from the wall socket and let the appliance
cool down.
Note: Remove the pan to let the airfryer cool down more quickly.
2 Wipe the outside of the appliance with a moist cloth.
3 Clean the pan, baking tray (HD9225 only) and basket with hot water,
some washing-up liquid and a non-abrasive sponge.
You can use a degreasing liquid to remove any remaining dirt.
Note: The pan, baking tray (HD9225) and basket are dishwasher-proof.
Tip: If dirt is stuck to the basket, the baking tray (HD9225 only), or the bottom
of the pan, fill the pan with hot water with some washing-up liquid. Put the
basket in the pan and let the pan and the basket soak for approximately
10 minutes.  
4 Clean the inside of the appliance with hot water and a non-abrasive
sponge.
5 Clean the heating element with a cleaning brush to remove any
food residues.
Storage
1 Unplug the appliance and let it cool down.
2 Make sure all parts are clean and dry.
3 Push the cord into the cord storage compartment. Fix the cord by
inserting it into the cord fixing slot.
Ordering accessories
To purchase accessories for this appliance, please visit our online shop at
www.shop.philips.com/service. If the online shop is not available in
your country, go to your Philips dealer or a Philips service centre. If you have
any difficulties obtaining accessories for your appliance, please contact the
Philips Consumer Care Centre in your country. You find its contact details in
the worldwide guarantee leaflet. 
Problem Possible cause Solution
Fresh fries are
fried unevenly
in the airfryer.
You did not soak
the potato sticks
properly before
you fried them.
Soak the potato sticks in a bowl
for at least 30 minutes, take them
out and dry them with kitchen
paper.
You did not use
the right potato
type.
Use fresh potatoes and make sure
they stay firm during frying.
Fresh fries
are not crispy
when they
come out of
the airfryer.
The crispiness of
the fries depends
on the amount of
oil and water in
the fries.
Make sure you dry the potato
sticks properly before you add
the oil.
Cut the potato sticks smaller for a
crispier result.
Add slightly more oil for a crispier
result